When it comes to experiments,
you want both your control and your test or
experiment group to share the same characteristics.
That way, if something is different in the results,
you know it is the change you made that caused it.
When choosing who to expose to an experiment,
you need to determine what type of user you are testing.
Is it every user?
In earlier examples we looked at businesses who only
wanted to test the effects of changes on new users.
So in sorting users into the control and experiment groups,
that business would only want to put new users in either group.
In addition to everyone being a target user,
you'd want other user characteristics to be
balanced between the control and experiment group.
Age, race, income; we'd want
relatively the same amount of users of each type in each group.
A great way to get balance is by randomizing
who is in the control and who is in the test group.
Put one visitor into the control group,
put the next visitor into the test,
and after that, put the next visitor into the control group, and so on.
Randomizing who is in what group generally
results in a balance of user characteristics between the groups.
If your company is performing extensive multivariate testing,
the business may want to invest in a framework for multivariate testing that
assigns users at different rates based on the impacts seen of different designs.
Using an established framework,
or creating one based on strong data science principles,
can decrease the number of users required to perform the test.